Not having the right Nvidia control
panel settings could completely destroy
your performance. That's why I'm about
to show you the best Nvidia control
panel settings for 2026 for maximum FPS
in every single game. I'm going to
explain you what every single mode does
in the Nvidia control panel since I do
know it can be a little bit
overwhelming. Don't be worried guys, I
got you covered. But you know what's
just as important as getting really good
performance, having really low ping, and
this is where Geosta comes in clutch.
Geob Booster is your number one service
which is going to help you to reduce
your ping and fix any sort of packet
loss in games. Even your favorite pros
like Zen are using it. All you got to do
is try it out for absolutely free with
the link in my video description, guys.
And once you get the tool installed, all
you got to do is select the game which
you try to play. No matter if it's
Fortnite, Counter-Strike, Valer, and Ge
Booster got you covered. It supports all
of your favorite games. And once you
selected a game, it's going to
automatically pick the best DNS server
in your year, and even apply a packet
loss protection service, which is
guaranteedly going to provide you with
the least amount of delay and the
smoothest gaming experience. They even
have new integrated FPS boost features,
which you can try directly over the
application. So, make sure to check it
out for absolutely free with the link in
the video description. So, guys, and
once we're now in the Nvidia control
panel, this is exactly how it should
look like. And in the first place, you
always want to go under adjust image
settings with preview and use the
advanced 3D image settings. Many people
actually still do the same mistake. They
want to set this here actually on
quality. But as soon as you actually
change something in the 3D settings
themselves, it's always going to swapped
over here to the middle one. So,
therefore, don't even bother guys. Just
simply click on that manage 3D settings.
And now for the first one, we have image
scaling. This one is actually amazing
feature. If, let's say, you have a 1080p
monitor and you want to actually put
your resolution to something like 720p,
you know, like normal HD, then you can
use actually image scaling to still make
it appear a little bit sharper and gain
a ton of FPS. Pretty cool feature if you
ask me, but you need the right game for
it to actually be beneficial. Next up,
guys, we have ambient occlusion, which
basically adds a soft shadow around
objects if there's like multiple ones in
a game. Looks pretty decent, but for
competitive games, you actually want to
have this completely turned off, guys.
This costs some FPS, so therefore
definitely turned off. and roofic
filtering. Now, this one here kind of
makes sure how detailed and nice
textures look like. Of course, the
higher you go on the scale, the better
it's going to look like. You know, it's
basically pixel calculation. For me
personally, I always keep this on
application control because I changed
that in Fortnite CS or whatever game I'm
playing manually in there. But you could
also keep it on off. I don't really care
about how textures look like, especially
not in competitive games, you know,
anyways like not getting super close
unless you're maybe playing some story
games. They could put it like all the
way up if you want to. Now, for
antilying FXA, this is a very old
version of antilying. And most games
nowadays anyways have way better
built-in antilying straight up stock.
So, therefore, I would not recommend you
to actually use this one. Just simply
keep it on off. What antalyzing does, it
blurs edges in games so that they don't
appear as pixelated. I'm just going to
put a picture right now on screen so you
know what I'm talking about. Actually,
the edges are not getting sharpened,
they're getting blurry so that you don't
notice it. It looks better. Then,
antilying gamma correction only works if
you're actually utilizing antalyzing. It
doesn't matter, by the way, if you use
the one here right now from the Nvidia
control panel or the one from ingame.
And it kind of works together with how
lightning reacts in terms of antilizing.
Looks pretty good. And as an example, in
CS, I actually do use uh gamma
correction itself because I use
antilizing on 4x. So therefore,
definitely keep it on. Then for
antilying mode, of course, we're going
to keep it on application control. Then
we have antilizing transparency. And
this one is basically for fences or
there are some objects in games
sometimes we can look through, but
fences are the best example so that they
look a little bit nicer. I don't really
care about it, so I keep it on off. Then
background application, maximum frame
rate. Interesting feature. Let's say as
an example now that you're maybe
listening to Google Chrome, you know,
like YouTube in the background. You can
sort of like limit the FPS there. And
I've seen some people actually talking
about that it does increase your
performance in while gaming if you do
other tests as well. Pretty interesting.
You could try it out if you want to. For
me personally, I keep it on off. Then
CUDA GPUs don't really have to worry
about it unless you have multiple GPUs
in your PC. For me, it's right now just
my RTX 4090. Then the system fallback
policy just going to leave on driver
default. Now for DSR factors, this is
also some sort of like scaling method
you would say. And what some people
actually use this for as an example is
that if you have like me right now here
a 1080p panel from Zoe here, your
maximum resolution is 1920* 1080. But
you could actually use sort of like
Nvidia to scale it up to something like
2560* 1440. And actually, in fact, games
do sometimes benefit from this. Even
though if you're locked on a 1080p
screen, you can still have slight
benefits from this. So you can try it
out for yourself if you want to. And if
there's the right game could actually
help, this is a cool thing to do. Or if
you're maybe trying to benchmark on,
let's say, like 4K, 2K, and you only
have a 1080p monitor, but you want to
upload a benchmark of like the latest
GPU, you can try that out as well. Next
up, we have the low latency mode, guys.
And this one is basically the same thing
as maximum pre-rendered frames. Usually,
if you keep this on off, you always have
free pre-rendered frames in your game,
which means the picture which you're
looking at at the moment is actually not
pretty up to date. If you put this on
on, it's only one, which of course
reduces the amount of frames
drastically, giving you a lot less input
delay. The thing now is this is the old
method because this one is actually
running through your driver, which is
proven to be pretty CPU heavy. And
nowadays, most games have the Nvia
reflex low latency mode like Fortnite,
CS, and all of them. So, you rather want
to activate that one, but it doesn't
really matter if you keep it on on here
because the in-game engine rendered
version is always going to override this
one here. Maximum frame rate kind of
interesting. I mean, you could
theoretically put it to something like
20 30 FPS above your maximum refresh
rate so that your PC doesn't produce
additional heat, which doesn't really
deliver any benefits. Now, multiframe
sampled antilying, MFAA, sort of
improves the quality of your antalyzing
while being more hardware friendly, but
only works with MSAA, which is another
antialyzing mode. So, for most of the
time, I actually keep this on off since
I'm actually applying the one straight
up in the game if I need antilying. Next
up, we have OpenGL GDI compatibility,
which sort of controls the behavior of
OpenGL. Just simply keep it on auto.
Also, OpenGL render GPU, you just simply
leave on auto. Power management mode, of
course, this one here, put always on
prefer maximum performance. Pretty
self-explanatory. Then the preferred
refresh rate, always the highest
available, guys. You don't want to miss
out on the herz of your monitor. Shader
cache size. This one you actually always
put to 10 gigs. This is sort of the
sweet spot. Texture filtering and
distroing. Sample optimization. This one
you actually want to have on on, which
will actually improve the FPS in games.
Texture filtering, LOD bias. This one
only really matters if you're actually
changing the level of detail, which
could be useful for potato graphics as
an example in Fortnite. Most games don't
need this, so just simply leave it on
the normal one. Texture filtering
quality, of course, very important. Put
this one here actually on high
performance. Texture filtering trillion
optimization as well on. Both of these
here are going to give you a lot better
performance since they both help
textures to basically load faster. They
might be a little bit lower quality, but
this will improve your FPS. Now, for
threaded optimization, you can just
simply leave it on auto. The only games
where you actually have to do it
manually would be in like super old like
Source games or some stuff like that.
Triple buffering on off. Vertical sync
actually on off guys. This is what I
would recommend you unless you're
playing on anything lower than 100 Hz
like 60 or 75 Hz if you have screen
tearing. So therefore they could maybe
try it out and all these virtual reality
and Vulcan modes just simply on one off
and auto then you're already good to go
and can apply all of these settings.
Now, next up, we have change ECC state.
And this one actually only matters for
systems where you do like very powerful
calculations, something like AI or stuff
like that. Other than that, for gaming
machines, you always want to keep this
off. Now, for configure surround and
physics, I would actually highly
recommend you if you have a somewhat
capable GPU, let this run over your GPU.
For me, it's RTX490, so I'm of course
going to select it. This is sort of like
the calculation of physics in games. And
most of the time, you're going to get
actually better performance if your GPU
is the better part in your system. And
that's going to be it like most of the
time. Like if you have anything like a
GTX 1070, 1650 and above, guys,
definitely utilize this. Now, we're
going to go under change resolution real
quick. And always make sure that you go
under PC, select your native resolution,
and put it to the highest possible of
your monitor. And then as well, adjust
desktop size and position. And if you're
actually not using any sort of search
resolution in games, always put this one
here on no scaling, guys. That one is
super important. And that way, you're
going to have the least amount of input
delay, guys. And yeah, those are the
best Nvidia control panel settings for
gaming for 2026. And if you need some
more optimization, definitely check out
these two videos right here on screen as
well.